hi I'm Leah Schaefer and I work with
cats protection today we're gonna look
at some behaviors of these lovely
animals here cats and and see why they
actually quite complicated and quite
subtle in their behaviour much more so
than social species such as ourselves
and dogs so let's have a look at the
cats and see what you think is going on
when a cat comes towards you with their
tail up usually pointing at the top it's
a sign of air greeting in cats this is a
lovely behavior to say that usually when
they're greeting you in the coming home
or the soliciting attention the best
thing to do with these behaviors is to
acknowledge their greeting and usually
give them a bit of fuss like a head rub
for example when cats are rubbing around
ourselves or other objects and the
environments usually corners of things
and they're often using like parts of
their body like their cheeks and up here
and their sides they're actually
depositing scent whilst it looks like a
really gorgeous behavior where they're
sort of smooching these areas it isn't
that scent marking we often see these
behaviors particularly when we first
arrive home for example when they're
rubbing around our legs it is the
greeting behavior as well but primarily
because we smell a bit funny where we've
been out and they're trying to make a
smell more familiar the slow blink is
one of my favorite behaviors this is
where you slow blink as a cat so really
slowly up and closing your eyes and in a
perfect Connecticut just turning your
head slowly to the side this is showing
the cat that you're nice and relaxed in
their presence and that you're not
threatening at all and if you're really
lucky the cat will slow blink you back
when cats have got their ears flattened
either to the side or back this can be a
sign of stress that they're quite
frightened what's really important when
four cats that are feeling stressed and
frightened is to give them a place to
hide and the opportunity to get up high
you know in your return home and the cat
throws itself on its side and shows you
its belly often many people misinterpret
behavior and think it wants its tummy
rubs now unfortunately those people that
will have tried this baby
well them well unfortunately get there
grab brambly hand and maybe the cat will
bite them as well that's because what
this cat is really doing is showing a
greeting behavior and also that it feels
relaxed in your presence it trusts you
and it's almost an abuse of that trust
to go and straight those huh me what the
cat would rather you do is just to give
them a slight head rub and that's it lip
licking can occur for a variety of
different reasons for example if there
just hasn't me to eat then you'll notice
I'm doing a really big lick however it
can also be a sign of nausea and in this
particular cat it's a sign of stress so
when cats are stressed it's really
important to give them a place to hide
and the opportunity to get up high
pairen is one of those behaviors that
tremendous are all cat owners it
obviously shows a cat that's content
often soliciting attention but sometimes
it can actually be a sign that the cat
is in pain I hope you've enjoyed look at
these cat behaviors and found them
interesting hopefully when you go home
today you'll look at your cat with a
whole new light and hopefully improve
your relationship with them as well